Add info on how to make reference assemblies compatible with PR (#1443)
NuGet/docs.microsoft.com-nuget: docs/create-packages/Explicit-assembly-reference.md

---

> title: Explicit Assembly References

Reviewer: If it's not too difficult, I'd suggest trying to clarify the customer task in the title metadata and the H1 (possibly in the TOC, too, if it's not too long). It looks like the customer task might be something like "Update reference assemblies for use with PackageReference". I'm not sure if that's quite right.

Author: What do you think about "Prevent some assemblies being referenced by projects"? Maybe "package assemblies" instead of just "assemblies". But I think "prevent" sounds too negative, I don't really like it.

I'm really struggling to think of a short title, particularly for the ToC. The page is about how package authors need to create their package so that only a subset of the assemblies in the package are "referenced" by projects that use the package. That's far too long for a title. The page explains for all project types, so we shouldn't need to call out either PackageReference or packages.config in the title, they're different sections on the page.

Reviewer: I agree that title is too negative, so if there's not a good way to phrase the customer task, I wouldn't change anything from the current title/H1.  (I wouldn't worry about the TOC though. It doesn't necessarily need to match the H1 or title field exactly.) Possibly, something fairly generic would be OK, too. Like "Configure|Modify|Update package assembly references". If that is not good either, I would leave it as-is.

Author: I need to write down this idea before I forget it. Something like "Selecting assemblies referenced by projects". I hope that fits nicely in the ToC :)  Maybe I'll have time to update the PR this afternoon, otherwise on Monday.

description: Make a subset of assemblies in the package available to the compiler, while all assemblies are available at runtime.
author: zivkan
ms.author: zivkan
ms.date: 05/24/2019
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Explicit Assembly References

> Explicit assembly references allows a subset of assemblies to be used for intellisense and compiling, while all assemblies are available at run-time. `PackageReference` and `packages.config` work differently, and as a result package authors need to take care to create the package to be compatible with both project types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explicit assembly references allows a subset of assemblies to be used for IntelliSense and compiling, while all assemblies are available at run-time. `PackageReference` and `packages.config` work differently, and as a result package authors need to take care to create the package to be compatible with both project types.
```

> [!Note]
> Explicit assembly references are related to .NET assemblies. It is not a method to distribute native assemblies that are P/Invoked by a managed assembly.

## `PackageReference` support

> When a project uses a package with `PackageReference` and the package contains a `ref\<tfm>\` directory, NuGet will advertise those assembles as compile-time assets, while the `lib\<tfm>\` assemblies are advertised as runtime assets. Assemblies in `ref\<tfm>\` are not used at runtime. This means it is necessary for any assembly in `ref\<tfm>\` to have a matching assembly in either `lib\<tfm>\` or a relevant `runtime\` directory, otherwise runtime errors will likely occur. Since assemblies in `ref\<tfm>\` are not used at runtime, they may be [metadata-only assemblies](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/blob/master/docs/features/refout.md) to reduce package size.

Reviewer: Is it possible to replace "advertise" in these several paragraphs with another word? I'd suggest "designate", "show", "classify", or "consider".

> [!Important]
> If a package contains the nuspec `<references>` element (used by `packages.config`, see below) and does not contain assemblies in `ref\<tfm>\`, NuGet will advertise the assemblies listed in the nuspec `<references>` element as both the compile and runtime assets. This means there will be runtime exceptions when the referenced assemblies need to load any other assembly in the `lib\<tfm>\` directory.

> [!Note]

> > If the package contains a `runtime\` directory, NuGet may not use the assets in the `lib\` directory.

Reviewer 2: What do we mean by "NuGet my not use..."? I am guessing it does not mean at runtime since we started the topic we state "while all assemblies are available at run-time"
Also, "may not" does not inspire confidence.

Author: Partly it's because I don't know the answer, partly I think there are cases when NuGet could use the `lib/` assets.

Consider a package that has the files `lib/netcoreapp2.2/pkg.dll`, `lib/net472/pkg.dll`, `ref/netcoreapp2.2/pkg.dll`, `ref/net472/pkg.dll` and `runtimes/win-x64/lib/netcoreapp2.2/pkg.dll`. So, the package has `netcoreapp2.2` and `net472` `lib` and `ref` files, and it has runtime file only for `netcoreapp2.2` on `win-x64`. What happens if the project using the package target `net472`? I expect it to use the `lib\` assets. But if the project targets `netcoreapp2.2` and is running on `win-x64`, it should use the `runtimes\` assets. But what happens if the project is running on `linux` or `win-x86`? My guess is it uses the `lib\` assets.

## `packages.config` support

> Projects using `packages.config` to manage NuGet packages normally add references to all assemblies in the `lib\<tfm>\` directory. The `ref\` directory was a new feature for `PackageReference` and therefore isn't considered when using `packages.config`. In order to explicitly set which assemblies are referenced for projects using `packages.config`, the package must use the [`<references>` element in the nuspec file](../reference/nuspec.md#explicit-assembly-references). For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects using `packages.config` to manage NuGet packages normally add references to all assemblies in the `lib\<tfm>\` directory. The `ref\` directory was added to support `PackageReference` and therefore isn't considered when using `packages.config`. To explicitly set which assemblies are referenced for projects using `packages.config`, the package must use the [`<references>` element in the nuspec file](../reference/nuspec.md#explicit-assembly-references). For example:
```

```xml
<references>
    <group targetFramework="net45">
        <reference file="MyLibrary.dll" />
    </group>
</references>
```

> [!Note]

> > The details of how assemblies are copied to the `bin\<configuration>\` directory is though a process called ???. Your project's assembly is copied, then the build system looks at the assembly manifest for referenced assemblies, then copies those assemblies and recursively repeats for all assemblies. This means if your `lib\<tfm>` directory contains 3 assemblies, `a.dll`, `b.dll`, and `c.dll` and you specify `a.dll` as an explicit assembly reference, `a.dll` has an assembly reference to `b.dll`, but `c.dll` is loaded though MEF or `Assembly.Load`, then `c.dll` may not be selected as part of ??? and therefore may not be copied to `bin\<configuration>\` despite being in `bin\<tfm>\`.

Author: @nkolev92  can you remind me what the name of the thing that finds dependencies of assemblies in `packages.config` world when copying assemblies to the build output directory?

Author: As pointed out by Rob as a comment to the PR, I was looking for [`ResolveAssemblyReference`](https://github.com/Microsoft/msbuild/blob/master/documentation/wiki/ResolveAssemblyReference.md) (RAR).

> > `packages.config` project use a process called [ResolveAssemblyReference](https://github.com/Microsoft/msbuild/blob/master/documentation/wiki/ResolveAssemblyReference.md) to copy assemblies to the `bin\<configuration>\` output directory. Your project's assembly is copied, then the build system looks at the assembly manifest for referenced assemblies, then copies those assemblies and recursively repeats for all assemblies. This means if any of the assemblies in your `lib\<tfm>\` directory is not listed in any other assembly's manifest as a dependency (if the assembly is loaded at runtime using `Assembly.Load`, MEF or another dependency injection framework), then it may not be copied to your project's `bin\<configuration>\` output directory despite being in `bin\<tfm>\`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> `packages.config` project use a process called [ResolveAssemblyReference](https://github.com/Microsoft/msbuild/blob/master/documentation/wiki/ResolveAssemblyReference.md) to copy assemblies to the `bin\<configuration>\` output directory. Your project's assembly is copied, then the build system looks at the assembly manifest for referenced assemblies, then copies those assemblies and recursively repeats for all assemblies. This means that if any of the assemblies in your `lib\<tfm>\` directory are not listed in any other assembly's manifest as a dependency (if the assembly is loaded at runtime using `Assembly.Load`, MEF or another dependency injection framework), then it may not be copied to your project's `bin\<configuration>\` output directory despite being in `bin\<tfm>\`.
```

> > The details of how assemblies are copied to the `bin\<configuration>\` directory is though a process called [ResolveAssemblyReference](https://github.com/Microsoft/msbuild/blob/master/documentation/wiki/ResolveAssemblyReference.md). Your project's assembly is copied, then the build system looks at the assembly manifest for referenced assemblies, then copies those assemblies and recursively repeats for all assemblies. This means if your `lib\<tfm>` directory contains 3 assemblies, `a.dll`, `b.dll`, and `c.dll` and you specify `a.dll` as an explicit assembly reference, `a.dll` has an assembly reference to `b.dll`, but `c.dll` is loaded though MEF or `Assembly.Load`, then `c.dll` may not be selected as part of ResolveAssemblyReference and therefore may not be copied to `bin\<configuration>\` despite being in `bin\<tfm>\`.

Reviewer 3: **through** a process.

Reviewer 3: Feels wordy. 

> The details of how assemblies are copied to the `bin\<configuration>\` directory is though a process called [ResolveAssemblyReference]

> The assembly resolution at build time happens through ResolveAssemblyReferences 

or something along those lines. 

Also worth calling out this is only applicable in the PC case. The resolution from packages in PR is different despite the task being the same.

Author: what do you think about the update?

## Example

> I wish my package to contain three assemblies, `MyLib.dll`, `MyHelpers.dll` and `MyUtilities.dll`, which are targeting the .NET Framework 4.7.2. `MyUtilities.dll` contains classes intended to be used only by the other two assemblies, so I don't want to make those classes available in intellisense or at compile time to projects using my package. My `nuspec` file will contain the following XML elements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I want my package to contain three assemblies, `MyLib.dll`, `MyHelpers.dll` and `MyUtilities.dll`, which are targeting the .NET Framework 4.7.2. `MyUtilities.dll` contains classes intended to be used only by the other two assemblies, so I don't want to make those classes available in IntelliSense or at compile time to projects using my package. My `nuspec` file needs to contain the following XML elements:
```
